Replace ?? guideline (#4423)
dart-lang/site-www: src/_guides/language/effective-dart/usage.md

}
{% endprettify %}

### DON'T use `true` or `false` in equality operations

Using the equality operator to evaluate a *non-nullable* Boolean expression 
against a Boolean literal is redundant. 

> It's always simpler to eliminate the equality operator, and add `!` if necessary:

Reviewer: This paragraph is great.

{:.good}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
if (nonNullableBool) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

{:.bad}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
if (nonNullableBool == true) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

To evaluate a Boolean expression that *is nullable*, you should only use `??`
or an explicit `!= null` check.

{:.good}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
// If you want null to result in false:
if (nullableBool ?? false) { ... }

// If you want null to result in false
// and you want the variable to type promote:
if (nullableBool != null && nullableBool) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

{:.bad}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
// Error if null 
if (nullableBool) { ... }

// If you want null to be false:
if (nullableBool == true) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

`if (nullableBool == true)` is a viable expression, but shouldn't be used for several reasons:

* It doesn't indicate the code has anything to do with `null`.

* Because it's not evidently `null` related, it can easily be mistaken for the non-nullable case,
where the equality operator is redundant and can be removed.

> That’s only true when the boolean expression on the left has no chance of producing null, but not when it can.

Reviewer 2: **suggestion:** This can go as is, but it could be tighter.

Consider:
* Removing the adverbs. You could say `...it's not clear that it relates to `null` (values? expressions?)...` and `...it can be mistaken...`
* Cutting the sentence into two: `You can remove the equality operator as it is redundant.`
* Simplify the language in the second sentence: `It's true when the left-side boolean expression can't produce a null value. It's false when it can't.`

Author: Skipping because:
> You could say ...it's not clear that it relates to null (values? expressions?)... and ...it can be mistaken...

"`null` related" is sufficient, really just related to null in any way is what's important, nothing specific about values/expressions/etc. 

"_easily_ mistaken", not just mistaken, is the issue here and why we're going out of the way to advise against using it even though it technically works. 

> Cutting the sentence into two: You can remove the equality operator as it is redundant.

The sentence is saying "it can be mistaken for the non-nullable case, _i.e. the case where the equality operator is redundant_". It's defining the clause before it, so cutting the sentence like that wouldn't make sense. 

> It's true when the left-side boolean expression can't produce a null value. It's false when it can't.

This reads much more awkward to me. Starting with "That's" indicates I'm talking about the condition I just described, while "It's" makes it sound like we're talking about the expression in question since it's referred to as "it" in every sentence prior. "It's false when it can't" is super confusing.

* The boolean logic is confusing. If `nullableBool` is null, then `nullableBool == true`
means the condition evaluates as false.

The `??` operator makes it clear that something to do with null is happening,
so it won't be mistaken for a redundant operation. The logic is much clearer too; 
the result of the expression being null is the same as the Boolean literal.
This is commonly considered "converting" `null` to `true` or `false` to be able to

> pass the result of the evaluation to something that expects a non-nullable Boolean value.

Reviewer: I'd probably just remove the sentence on "converting". I don't think it adds much value. That was how I framed it originally, but I don't know if that's how anyone actually thinks about it.

Author: @munificent The reason I kept that point from the original section is because of the lint `use_if_null_to_convert_nulls_to_bools` that currently points to the section I rewrote/removed. 

I redirected that lint to point to this new section, but the new content doesn't mention anything about "converting" so it's...odd. 

I will raise this with the analyzer team (and @ you there) to change the lint if no one thinks about  it like "converting" anyway.

Author: Ok based on https://github.com/dart-lang/linter/issues/3908 it seems safe to remove that part, thanks!

}
{% endprettify %}

<a id="prefer-using--to-convert-null-to-a-boolean-value"></a>
### DON'T use `true` or `false` in equality operations

Using the equality operator to evaluate a *non-nullable* Boolean expression 
against a Boolean literal is redundant. 

> It's always simpler to eliminate the equality operator, and add `!` if necessary:

Reviewer 3: This mention of adding "`!` if necessary" is a bit confusing to me, because it makes it seem like it will be part of the solution, but the guideline goes on to say "you should only use `??` or an explicit `!= null` check." and doesn't mention `!`. 

Depending on the goal of this mention, perhaps just remove the mention of `!` as I think the other two solutions are generally a better choice anyway.

Author: That's meant to capture the case of negating the expression, depending on what you're trying to accomplish. These are both "good" for non-nullable boolean expressions:
```
if (nonNullableBool) { ... }

if (!nonNullableBool) { ... }
```

So maybe removing ` and add `!` if necessary` and just adding the second "good" example is clearer. Or even keeping the clause and adding the second example, that'd probably be clearest

Reviewer 3: Oh my, sorry! I was so focused on nullability, I thought this was talking about the null assertion operator and was pretty confused.

I think adding a second example would be great, but I'd love to also modify the clause so people don't read the text incorrectly as being about the null assertion operator. 

```suggestion
It's always simpler to eliminate the equality operator, 
and use the unary negation operator (`!`) if necessary:
```

{:.good}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
if (nonNullableBool) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

{:.bad}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
if (nonNullableBool == true) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

To evaluate a Boolean expression that *is nullable*, you should only use `??`
or an explicit `!= null` check.

{:.good}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
// If you want null to result in false:
if (nullableBool ?? false) { ... }

// If you want null to result in false
// and you want the variable to type promote:
if (nullableBool != null && nullableBool) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

{:.bad}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
// Error if null 
if (nullableBool) { ... }

// If you want null to be false:
if (nullableBool == true) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

> `if (nullableBool == true)` is a viable expression, but shouldn't be used for several reasons:

Reviewer 3: I believe just the `nullableBool = true` portion of this is the expression. Maybe just stick to that as it should be avoided in other conditional situations as well (`nullableBool = true ? oneThing : SecondThing`):

```suggestion
`nullableBool == true` is a viable expression, 
but shouldn't be used for several reasons:
```

* It doesn't indicate the code has anything to do with `null`.

* Because it's not evidently `null` related, it can easily be mistaken for the non-nullable case,
where the equality operator is redundant and can be removed.
That’s only true when the boolean expression on the left has no chance of producing null, but not when it can.

* The boolean logic is confusing. If `nullableBool` is null, then `nullableBool == true`
means the condition evaluates as false.

The `??` operator makes it clear that something to do with null is happening,
so it won't be mistaken for a redundant operation. The logic is much clearer too; 
the result of the expression being null is the same as the Boolean literal.
This is commonly considered "converting" `null` to `true` or `false` to be able to
pass the result of the evaluation to something that expects a non-nullable Boolean value.

> Using a null-aware operator on a variable inside a condition
> doesn’t promote the variable to a non-nullable type. 

Reviewer 3: Maybe conditional statement?

```suggestion
Using a null-aware operator on a variable inside a conditional statement
doesn’t promote the variable to a non-nullable type. 
```

{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
if (nonNullableBool == true) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

To evaluate a boolean expression that *is nullable*, you should use `??`
or an explicit `!= null` check.

{:.good}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
// If you want null to result in false:
if (nullableBool ?? false) { ... }

// If you want null to result in false
// and you want the variable to type promote:
if (nullableBool != null && nullableBool) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

{:.bad}
{% prettify dart tag=pre+code %}
// Error if null 
if (nullableBool) { ... }

// If you want null to be false:
if (nullableBool == true) { ... }
{% endprettify %}

`nullableBool == true` is a viable expression, 
but shouldn't be used for several reasons:

* It doesn't indicate the code has anything to do with `null`.

* Because it's not evidently `null` related, it can easily be mistaken for the non-nullable case,
where the equality operator is redundant and can be removed.
That’s only true when the boolean expression on the left has no chance of producing null, but not when it can.

* The boolean logic is confusing. If `nullableBool` is null, then `nullableBool == true`
means the condition evaluates as false.

> The `??` operator makes it clear that something to do with null is happening,
> so it won't be mistaken for a redundant operation. The logic is much clearer too; 
> the result of the expression being null is the same as the Boolean literal.

Reviewer 3: Split up a bit and make boolean lowercase:

```suggestion
The `??` operator makes it clear that something to do with null is happening,
so it won't be mistaken for a redundant operation. 
The logic is much clearer too; 
the result of the expression being null is the same as the boolean literal.
```
